Other Story Features: Basic Slide and Audio/Autoplay
In this video, I'm going to talk about basic slides, and how to add them to Flourish stories,
and some of the customization that you can do to them and how they may help you make
better Flourish stories.
So first things first. A basic slide looks like this. It's an option when you add a slide to a
story. So down here, new slide. When you do this, you should have two options, right here.
Choose a visualization and basic slide. I have a couple more because these are some
special slides. But usually you'll choose basic slide, and it'll come up and look like this.
So this is really great for people who want to use Flourish as a presentation tool because it
allows you to add text, and bullet points, and everything like that that you'd add using
something like PowerPoint or Google Slides. It's also great just as a beginning or ending
slide in the middle of a bunch of visualizations.
So this is the story that I showed you before with all of these European election result
visualizations. So, for example, I may want to put just a header slide here at the beginning
to say what's about to happen and what you're about to see.
There are kind of three elements to a basic slide. The first is the layout. So up here in the
top left corner, you'll see this little icon that you can click on, and it lets you change the
layout. You'll see how everything is moving around here. So this one is slide over image.
This is image left. Slide part right. And so on. So choose one of those, and then you can
also choose a background color and things like margins.
The second element is the text element. So it's title, subtitle and text. If you click on this
right here, you can customize it as well. So add alignment, and positioning, and text
colorings. So if I wanted to say something about comparing EU election results,
parliament's election results 2014 and 2019, I can do that. I could change the color if I
wanted to make it a little bit navy-er. If I want to get rid of one of the text options, I can click
this icon right here, and it'll go away. You'll still see this expand icon, but once you go to
the preview, you'll see that this is gone. This is just showing a little bit of a guide to show
you that you can add another text element down there.
And then the final element is this image one. So if you click down here, you can hide it, so
that just gets rid of it. But you can also add an image or a video, so you can upload an
image or a video. So if I wanted to upload an image of maybe this little dog, I would click
there. There he is. And then there's a bunch of different options for the image size, so you
can do that.
So those are the three elements to the slide. And if I go to this preview and click here, here
is what it looks like. You can see that this has gone away, and it's all centered and nice. So
I hope that explains a little bit about how to use basic slide. And in further videos, I'll talk
more about other slide options.
In this video, I'm going to be talking about audio, and auto play, and how to add those to
Flourish stories. This is a feature that we sort of internally refer to as Talkies. And yes, let's
get started.
I have here this story. This line chart race story, which sort of iterates through and goes
through different points in this chart about UK general election results, and the
audio-auto-play-talkies feature is only available in the story editor. Probably for obvious
reasons. It's all done here, for the most part, in this little panel here that says audio / auto
play at the top near the navigation options. So currently it's disabled. If I click enabled, a
couple of things happen. So you can use the auto play option without any audio. So if I
don't upload any audio, which I do using this button which I'll show you in a second, the
auto play is enabled. This just means this story will go through at ... and I can add sort of
little durations. You can see the little durations here for each slide. Over here. And then
you can change the durations up here. So if I wanted to make this first slide two seconds
instead of five, I would do that, and you can see how it changed over here.
And then if I go to my story, you get a play button instead of just a simple navigation bar up
here. You'll see every five seconds it's going.
A couple of other things to note is to add the audio. You just click upload audio, and you
can upload MP4 files, I believe. I'm sorry, MP3 files. And that will sink your audio, so it'll
play over your story. To make your audio and your auto play sync up together, you will
have to play around with these.
So, you know, for example, if I had audio over the top of this explaining what's going on in
each of these points, I'd want to make the durations of these slides change with the points
in the audio.
And there's also this option over here, which is loop at end. So if you want your video, if
you want your talkie to go back to the beginning and just keep looping, you can click that.
If not, click off of it, and it's this little gray icon, right here.
Yeah. That's about it. Talkies are a really unique and cool feature that Flourish offers. And
they're really fun and they're really engaging, and it's something that you should definitely
try. 
