Adding visualizations and charts to your Data Studio Report
レポートの名前を"2020 Vehicle Fuel Economy Dashboard"変更します。
今はまだ空白のページに過ぎません。右側には、このダッシュボードのレイアウトのさまざまな構成アイテムが表示されます。
幅や高さ、色やレポートのテーマなどが変更できます。でも今は変えなくてもいいでしょう。いくつかのビジュアライゼーションとチャートを追加します。
このテーブルには車両が何台あるのか調べましょう。このスコアカードを追加し、メトリクスにインデックスを追加すると自動的に435台と表示されます。
そうしたら名前を「車両数」に変更します。これは、そのフィールドのIDまたはインデックス数をカウントします。

Let's add another scorecard identifying how many manufacturers are there. So we'll do the
same thing, add a scorecard and this time we will pull in the manufacturer's name (Mfr
Name). So "number of mfg" and as you recall there were also the divisions within the
manufacturer. So we can take a different approach, we can copy this scorecard and we
can paste. We'll move it to the right, let's move it to below this one. And here we can
change just change the number of manufacturers to count of divisions. And now we have
the division count, there are a total thirty nine divisions from twenty two manufacturers in
our data table.
Now if we want to look at all the names of all the manufacturers and the count of vehicles
we will add a bar chart. Let's draw that over here and it automatically picked up
manufacturer name as the dimension. And for the metric we will again pick this index and
it will count the, do a unique count on the index field and we can see over here the names
of all the manufacturers. General Motors has more than a hundred and forty vehicles in
this table and Honda has almost thirty. You can see they're only ten manufacturers. That's
because for this chart if we go to the style, the bars are limited to ten. And we know that
we have total twentytwo manufacturers. So we will just increase this to let's say thirty, and
this will pull in names of all the manufacturers. And you can also change the styling bit, we
can include data labels. This will include the numbers of the vehicles. And we will scroll
down and remove the legend and we see the count over here. Now we will go ahead and
add a text box at the bottom to indicate that this is the count of vehicles for each
manufacturer, "count of vehicles for each mfg" and we will put that to the right.
So this is the first page of visualization and now we'll move on to the next page and add
some more charts and tables. Before moving onto the next page for our dashboard, we
can have a look at how this dashboard will look for our viewers. If we click on the "view"
button on the top right side, the dashboard enters the view mode, and over here we can
see how this would look like to a viewer of this dashboard. Now let's go back and we can
click on "edit" and it goes back to the editing mode and we'll "add a new page". This adds
a new blank page and for this page we'll try to reduce the height. We'll, let's say, make it
600 pixels in height.
Now we want to create a scatter chart of vehicles showing the engine displacement and
fuel efficiency. So add a chart and we will make the scatter chart. Add that over here and
on the x axis we will add the engine displacement and on the y axis we will add the
combined adjusted fuel efficiency and we will separate this by manufacturer name, the
index model. We'll also add the carline to get that specific information.
And let's add one more division. Maybe we can replace the manufacturer's name with the
division over here. And we can set the, for the style we will make sure that the bubble color
changes by division. So it will have different divisions colored with, different divisions
would be highlighted with different colors. Now there are a lot of different divisions here,
thirty-nine of them, this chart looks a bit messy. So let's add a filter where we can choose a
specific manufacturer. So, add a new filter, and for this filter it will be the manufacturer
name that's picked by default. And if we select the view mode we can see that from here in
the manufacture, we can click here to select any of the manufacturers. So let's say we can
pick "General Motors" only and this shows us the distribution of all the General Motor
Vehicles separated by different divisions under General Motors. And over here on the left
side we have, on the y axis we have the adjusted fuel efficiency and then the x axis we
have the engine displacement. We can go in and change a separate manufacturer we can
select, let's say Honda. And there are only two divisions under it and you can see that
distribution over here.
Now we can go back, and this returns to the original state. It is also possible for us to
change what is displayed in this filter. So if we can, if we go back to the view mode you
can see that there is a number that shows up on the right hand side. And what that
number is over here is, we can see it's the sum of engine displacement, which doesn't
really makes any sense. What we could do we could add the count of vehicles, and then if
we view now, it'll show the manufacturers in descending order of vehicle count. We also
have the option to omit these numerical values altogether. So we can just select not to
show any values and we can select to use the dimension value and show that in
ascending order. If we select that and go back to the view mode we can see that now it
has all the vehicle names, vehicle manufacture names listed in ascending order. And we
can, let's say, pick Ford Motor Company, and we'll see the Ford and Lincoln lines
represented here.
So that was our second page and now we'll move on to the third page where we'll use
multiple charts which will be interacting with each other. Now let's add another page to our
dashboard and in this new page on the left hand side we'll add a bar chart, and over here
we will add first the average fuel efficiency for all vehicles. From here we'll take the
average and we'll name it the average fuel efficiency, and hit enter. And this is being done
by manufacturer, let's go back and add all the manufacturers. Number 25, that should add
all of them.
But we also want to add maybe the median fuel efficiency. So add back this same metric
again but this time it's not sum or average, we'll choose "median". And we'll name this
median fuel efficiency, and hit enter. So this is now showing us for all manufacturers the
average fuel efficiency for the vehicles and the median fuel efficiency. We can go in and
change the colors. So let's say we will color the average using this color and we will
average the median by the blue color.
Now let's add a second chart, we will be add a time series chart on the right hand side.
And on this chart we can see the time dimension release date is already selected. So we
will rather than begin by date, we will pick this as "year month" and in blue we will add in
the count of vehicles. So this showed us how many vehicles were released each month.
And we can maybe break it down using your aspiration method and we can see that
mostly the vehicles were either turbocharged or naturally aspirated. And we can do even
do an interesting thing here for the left chart. We can go into the options and we can scroll
down and select for the chart interactions, apply filter. Once we do that and we go to the
view mode, we can select any of the manufacturers on the left hand side and this will
immediately filter the chart on the right hand side for that manufacturer. For example, if we
select Nissan over here on the right hand side it will only see the values for Nissan
vehicles and we can see that Nissan only makes natural gas rated or turbocharged
vehicles, in this data set.
Let's pick something else maybe let's select Lotus. For Lotus you can see there is most
likely only one. There were four vehicles and all four of them were supercharged and we
can hit "edit" to go back. If we want to scroll through the pages, you or your viewers can
use these arrow buttons here to scroll through in different pages and interact with different
elements and different pages.
Let's head back into our edit mode.
