Create a report in Data Studio
fueleconomy.govのデータセットから最初のレポートを作りましょう。
このデータセットには、2020年現在、米国で利用可能なさまざまな車両に関する燃費情報が含まれています。
このデータセットをダウンロードしてGoogle Sheetsにインポートし、そこからいくつかのフィールドを除外すると、これが最後に使用するテーブルになります。
リンクを共有することで、ここで使用しているのと同じデータセットを使用して、あなたの思うままにレポートを作成することができます。
このデータセットについて少し説明すると、各行はそれぞれ１台の車に関する製造元、部門名、車種といった情報を記載しています。
この列は行に対して一意、すなわちインデックスです。
排気量、気筒数、燃費、走行距離、総走行距離、高速道路の走行距離、市内走行距離などの情報もあります。車両とエンジンに関するフィールドもあります。

There is also a release date, a fuel efficiency rating from one to ten, and dollar values
about how much you save over five years by using this vehicle, or how much you end up
spending over five years by using this vehicle. To use this data set we'll go back into Data
Studio and try to create our first report. We'll go to this left hand side, click on the "create"
button and then select "report". This creates a blank report in Data Studio. Now this blank
report does not have any data source attached to it. On the right hand side you can see all
the data sources that I already have access to on this account. If you have existing data
sources you can attach them to any new report that you create, or you can select to create
a new data source. We will click on this "create new data source" button and that will give
us a list of all the connectors that are available in Data Studio. These can be the Google
built connectors, the native connectors, or the partners connectors that are available, or
any other connector that you have added in Data Studio.
To select our data set, we will look for the Google Sheets connector and select this sheet's
connector, and from there you can see a list of all the spreadsheets this account has
access to. You can also add files by URL. So, for this specific file we'll be sharing the link
with all of you and you can use this, that link over here to use that same file. Now we'll go
to the "all items", we will select this file that we've created and we will select the "selected
data" spreadsheet. As you can see this is the spreadsheet name, it is the worksheet name.
And from there we'll click "connect". This lets Data Studio create a new data source based
on the sheets' connector and the configuration that we have provided.
This is now showing us the field screen, and over here we can see all the different fields
that are available in the data. Here you can see the field names and the names are
colored in blue and green. The blue ones are basically metrics and the green ones are
dimensions and we'll go into details about what they mean. Over here you can see the
different types of data, and as you click over here you can change that type of the data.
Data Studio parses the data by itself and tries to guess the data type, but you can always
go in and change that data type. And for numerical data types you can also change the
default aggregation method for this data. Let's start to understand what are dimensions
and metrics.
This help page on the Data Studio support site talks about what dimensions and metrics
are. So easy way to describe this are, is basically what dimensions describe and metrics
measure. In this table "item name" and "colors" will be dimensions whereas "quantity sold"
will be measure. Though not all numerical fields are metrics and we'll see an example of
that in our data set. In this data set we had this index field which is a numerical field, but it
doesn't really mean 18 numerically, it's just an ID that we are using to uniquely identify
each vehicle. And we would like to treat this as a dimension. So we'll go back to our report
and from here we can see index has been colored as blue and all the blue colored ones
are metrics. So we will go in and change this into a text, and as we can get into a text this
becomes a dimension from a metric. We won't change anything else here, we can see that
the release date has been automatically identified as a date. We'll just go onto the right
side and click on "add to report". As we click on "add to report" again, this is creating a
new data source based on the Google Sheets' connector and the configuration that we
provided and attaching that data source to our report. Now our data source and our report
is ready and we have a blank canvas where we can create visualizations based on our
data set.
