The “me” layer
ここでは、私がビジュアライゼーションの中でお気に入りの部分であるレイヤーを説明しましょう。
これはインタラクティブなレイヤーの一種ですが、私は「me」レイヤーと呼びたいと思います。
なぜなら、私たちのデータになぜ関心を持つべきか、あるいは私たちがデータのどこに関心を持っているのかを人々に伝える方法があれば、どんなビジュアライゼーションでもより面白く、魅力的になると思うからです。
アメリカの富の分布をグラフに表したとしましょう。横軸は富、つまり収入です。
0ドル、1,000ドル、2,000ドルときて、年間最高10億ドルとなっていますね?これが横軸です。
そしてY軸は人々の数、つまりそれぞれの富の範囲内にある世帯数です。最終的にはヒストグラムのようになるはずです。
棒が高いほど、その範囲にある富を持っている人は多くなります。さて、多くの国ではこのような分布になっています。
アメリカの低所得層は大半が０～1000ドルの収入を得ています。10万～12万ドルは中流階級と言っていいでしょう。
ほとんどの人はここまでの範囲に含まれます。しかし、このグラフには長い尾があります。
より少ない収入しか得られない人々、そして多くの金を稼ぐ世帯がいます。
貧困層、中流階級、たくさんの人々がここにいて、億万長者がここにいます。
これは興味深いことです。というのも、このチャートはたいがいの国に存在する富と収入の不平等を指し示しているからです。
ほとんどの人はここにいますが、帯域の上限には非常に裕福な人々がいます。
これはエンコーディングですよね？データをエンコーディングするのは面白いものです。
しかし、チャートを披露する前に「毎年いくら稼いでいますか」と聞いてみたらどうでしょう。
６万ドルでも、８万ドルでも、その額を入力します。「私は年収８万ドルです」と言われたらそれをチャートに入力します。
グラフには資産別の世帯分布が示されています。高さは世帯数、横軸は富のレベルまたは範囲であることを覚えておいてください。
このグラフに線を引いて、「あなたはここにいます」と注釈を付けます。これが「me」レイヤーです。
「me」レイヤーは、データの中であなたがいる場所であり、例えば、70%の家族があなたより多くのお金を稼いでおり、30%の家族があなたより多くのお金を稼いでいるかもしれない。
ビジュアライゼーションにこのレイヤーを追加すると、データが人間性を帯び、ビジュアライゼーションがより面白く魅力的なものになります。
こうしてデータは身近になり、あなたにアピールし、あなたについて語り、あなたをデータ内の他の人と比較するものとなるのです。
「me」コンポーネントを追加することによってビジュアライゼーションをより魅力的なものとする例を紹介しましょう。
これを実現するには、人々に問いかけることです。この話題についてどう思いますか。データはどのようになると思いますか。
何かを描いたり、したりするよう促して現実のデータを提示すると、彼らは推測や直感と現実とを比較します。
ニューヨークタイムズ紙は先日、「You Draw It: What Got Better or Worse During Obama's Presidency?」というプロジェクトを公表しました。
これは一連の折れ線グラフで皆さんが想像する通りに線を描けます。例えばオバマ政権下の失業率を予想してください。
ここに空白があって、失業率を表す線を書き加えることができます。失業率はきっと急上昇したのでは？
急増する線を描いて、書き終わったらクリックすると（現実には）どうなったか見ることができます。あまりうまくいきませんでした。
私は今、自分の推測と現実を比較しています。「なんてこった！」とあなたは感じ、理解を深めることができます。
それはエンゲージメントを高め、あなたが間違っているとか、正しいと伝えることによって
Let's take a look at several examples of how to make data visualizations more engaging
and interesting by adding sort of these "me" component to them. One way to do this is to
challenge people, to basically ask people questions. What do you think about this topic?
Or what do you guess that the data will look like? And then you ask them to draw
something or to do something and then you show them the reality, so they can compare
their own guesses and intuitions, with what the reality released.
The New York Times did this a while ago with a project titled You Draw It: What Got Better
or Worse During Obama's Presidency?, and it's a series of line charts in which you can
basically draw what you guess that, for example, the unemployment rate was during the
Obama years. So, for instance, under President Obama, the unemployment rate was and
you have here an empty space that you can draw on, I'm going to guess, basically trace a
line. I would guess that unemployment went up very sharply. So I'm going to draw very,
very sharply increasing line over here. And once I finish drawing, I'm going to click on
show me how I did. Well, I didn't do that well. So, now I am comparing my own assumption
and my own conjecture to the reality. And you get these sort of "oh, wow" effect. All right.
I might guess what's wrong. I think that that "oh, wow" effect can really increase
understanding. It increases engagement, and it basically tells you, by telling you that you
are wrong or that you are right, it's putting you inside of the data that you are that you are
presenting, right? It's that element of surprise that makes the graphics so engaging and so
appealing. Under Obama, the number of immigrants convicted of crimes who were
deported, did it increase or decrease? All right. So I say, I would say that it increased,
show me how I did. Well, I didn't do as badly as before, right? So it's a very interesting
example of how to add this layer to any visualization.

Another one that I would like to show you was published recently. Sort of, it begins, it's a
quiz. It begins with a quiz. Let us predict whether you are a Democrat or a Republican
according to who you are, right? Let me guess whether you lean more Democrat or you
lean more Republican, on the political spectrum. And if you scroll down this story, you will
see that it contains tons of data visualizations and charts and graphs and maps, so you
can read all these later on. But the first thing that they do is to ask about you. To ask about
what you think or what you believe or who you are, etc.. Again, that is the "me" component
of the story, right? So the questions are, for example, are you black, Hispanic or Asian?
Well, I'm European, so I wouldn't say, I speak Spanish, obviously, but I would not call
myself Hispanic. So I would say no. Is religion important in your life? Well, not that much.
I'm going to click on no. Are you straight? Yes. Did you attend college? Yes. Are you
Protestant? No. Are you Catholic? No. Are you female? No. Do you have a college
degree? Well, yes. So people like you are democratic by a 48 percent margin. Is like a
huge margin towards the Democrats, right? That's a very interesting way to percent data.
And this sort of presentation prompts you to basically start over and try different things, to
see how different demographic groups lean on the political spectrum, whether they lean to
the right or the lean to the left. Another very compelling example of how to do it, because
once you have showed all these on, you have let people play a little bit with these, then
they can scroll down and read the entire story underneath and read all the details, the
background information, how the data was put together and the main insights from the
data. They are all presented in this story, and in the other visualizations of this project.
The third strong example that I would like to show you how to use this sort of "me"
component in visualization is a simulation. Simulations can also be really powerful in
communication and particularly in visualization. So this is a simulation designed by
FiveThirtyEight titled The Atlas Of Redistricting. So you probably know that in the US we
have sort of a problem with a phenomenon called gerrymandering, which is basically that
politicians in many places are allowed to draw electoral districts according to their needs to
favor some candidates or to disfavor other candidates, and so on and so forth. So I'm not
going to get into the details of all these. But what this project lets you do is to basically
redraw all the electoral districts in different ways, either to favor the Democrats, or to favor
the Republicans, or to try to balance out one party with the other, or to use a mathematical
formula to create equal districts, or districts that are sort of correct quotation marks in there
to let you see different possibilities. It's like we could call these "what if visualization," "what
if this happened?" right? If this particular thing happened.
It's a great example of that, I think. You may see when you scroll down, it lets you first see
the entire, the entire United States or you can select a particular state, for example, I'm
going to select here Florida. Let's gerrymander Florida. So we, right now we have seen the
current district boundaries. So, first of all, I'm going to see what happens if I am a
Republican and I want to redistrict Florida to favor Republicans so the map will get
redrawn. And as you can see, I have, we have redrawn the map in a way that most of
these districts probably will be won by Republican candidates. But we could also
gerrymander, gerrymander these districts to favor Democrats, right? To give more space,
for example, to South Florida, which tends to lean more towards the Democratic Party. But
then you can have other goals and you can see what would happen if we did this, "match
partisan breakdown of seats to electorate", try to "promote highly competitive elections," so
candidates will be very close to each other, so they need to fight, fight very hard to win
votes. So, most of these counties, this aren't counties, sorry, most of these districts would
be very close to each other in terms of Democratic vote and Republican vote to maximize
the number of majority minority districts, so many different options that you can play with.
So this is sort of a simulation, right? Doesn't show you, it showed you first the reality,
what's going on, what currently exists, but then it also lets you visualize what would
happen if we did these, right? And it lets people play with all these options. It's sort of like
most, something like a like a video game, right. You can choose sort of the options that
most appeal to you or that you might find that you may find most interesting or that you
may want to explore.
