The past and present of data storytelling
Module6に戻ってきました。ビデオ２です。最初のビデオでは。データストーリーテリングとは何か、Puddingはどんなことをしていて、ストーリーテリングの世界にどんな貢献をしているのかお話ししました。
このビデオでは今日にいたるまでのデータ・ストーリーテリングの歴史を手早く振り返ります。
データ・ストーリーテリングの古典や巨人、すなわち先駆者たちをご紹介します。まずはジョン・スノウのコレラ感染地図です。
病気の発生率を地図にして、ロンドンの井戸ポンプを中心に発生していることを突き止めました。
Then there's Florence Nightingale's rose chart, where she looked at the cyclical
relationship of army deaths during the Korean War. And finally, Charles Joseph Menards'
march, Napoleon's march that looks at the troop numbers by kind of this differing width on
this diagram. And the reason I show you guys these is, one so I can geek out with you and
tell you how cool they are. but two, that we stand on the shoulders of giants, as overly
dramatic as that is. It's important to acknowledge where we've come from, but also where
we're going, because the field of data journalism and data storytelling is continually
building and perfecting on previous work.
So we're going to jump forward a little bit, way forward, to somewhere where a lot of us
can trace our kind of first mainstream modern experience with data storytelling on the
Web. And this is to those super long, eye-catching single image infographics. They were
modeled after full-space, full-page spreads in newspapers where the space to design was
more vertical than horizontal. And after I transitioned to newspaper pagination, I even
designed a bunch of these. So full disclosure on that one.
Here's one that I did while at The Huffington Post. And the reason that these things, these
longform infographics started to fall out of favor was, one, the Web just wasn't print. Long
images weren't the best way to communicate information. Text didn't scale and it became
illegible, especially when I shifted from desktop to mobile. The second thing that happened
was the form was kind of co-opted by marketing companies and the data became
obscured by illustrations or misrepresented entirely.
So the field of data storytelling, which is rooted in truthfulness, moved away from this type
of presentation, of course. Then came Snowfall. It was a beast of a visual project by The
New York Times in 2012, and it was one of the first times that photos, text and graphics
were seamlessly and elegantly integrated into the web. You can see it here as we scroll
down. It's just a marvelous piece of journalism and it still holds up to this day.
But for as engaging and innovative as Snowfall was, the majority of New York Times
readers didn't even make their way through it. And that's why visual storytelling had to
keep evolving. We have to operate on the principle of, if a tree falls in the forest and no
one's around to hear it, does it make a sound? It's not just enough to produce a quality
data story. We have to make sure that we're meeting our audience where they are.
Post Snowfall, data storytelling pushed the boundaries of tech. We made all the things --
all the things interactive and hoverable and clickable and filterable and animated. In 2017,
Gregor Aisch, formerly of The New York Times interactive team and now a data rapper,
revealed that 85 percent of the Times page visitors online simply ignored interactive
infographics altogether. Now, that doesn't mean that we shouldn't make interactive
graphics and in fact, I'll talk about that in a later video. But again, it just means that we
have to evolve and meet our audience where they are.
The biggest takeaway here is that we shouldn't make the audience work too hard. We
shouldn't hide important information behind a click. And we should make sure that their
experience is as seamless as possible.
So what does a data story look like now? Well, there's no magic formula. Visually, data
stories can look very different, but at their core, the most successful ones often start with a
question. We're gonna take a look at a few overarching categories of data stories and see
how they each present themselves. These are by no means the only way to present and
tell the data story, but they're just some of the most recognizable patterns that we're
seeing out there today. So the first type of data story we're going to talk about is something
known as scrollytelling and at The Pudding this is something that we're known for. It's a
technique where the story unfolds linearly with animations as the reader scrolls down the
page. And instead of alternating between text graphic, text graphic, the two are layered
and integrated. And scrollytelling tries to bring the story straight to the reader. Often we're
handholding them through a step by step process, and because the readers are scrolling
instead of clicking, it's a little bit more frictionless.
First, we'll take a look at a project that Russell Goldenberg did with The Pudding about the
NBA and how the league would look if you redrafted everyone. And here's the scrollytelling
part. He walks you through all the picks and then kind of where they actually ended up in
their career. The second example is from Reuters. It looks at the aging population of
Japan, and as you scroll, different points in the line are highlighted and match with the
annotations that come up on the left side of your screen. The reason I really, really love
this one is those little bitty lines look like wire hairs and they remind me of an aging person
themselves.
The second type of overarching kind of grouping that we're gonna look at in data stories is
sometime is something we call micro stories. If scrollytelling takes that high-tech approach
to data storytelling, micro stories has more of a stripped down analog approach, often with
a hyper focused storyline. Here's one great example from Mona Chalabi. She's an
illustrator who uses Instagram as her platform to tell data. This looks at the number of
measles cases that are on the rise and she's drawn a dot on a little baby for each kind of
case. And we can obviously see that 2014 is a huge year for measles.
Another great kind of data analog micro stories is a project called Dear Data, where a
Giorgia Lupi and Stephanie Posavec wrote postcards back and forth to each other and
illustrated their day to day lives. This is a little bit more in that data art realm, but it's still
very, very hyper-focused, and each one of these postcards contains its own micro story.
The next overarching category that we want to look at in. data stories is something that
we're broadly terming nontraditional. It's stories that don't look like traditional data stories
at all. They're completely void of traditional charts and instead use images, videos and
emerging tech like AR and VR to tell the story. Here's one from The New York Times that
looks at the photographs that were taken during the moon mission of Apollo 11.
And this is the money part of the piece. It's again, scrollytelling, but in this instance, the
data is actually where these photos were taken. And the piece itself guides you through
each photo and you can see in space exactly what the astronauts saw in space. Another
great example of this nontraditional data storytelling bit is a video by Josh Begley called
Concussion Protocol. This video takes a look at every single concussion in the NFL from
2017 2018. We'll take a quick look at the video now. Again, the video doesn't have a chart
in it at all and it doesn't look like what you'd expect in a data story, but at its core it's still
data, just the presentation is different.
The last broad category of data stories that we're going to look at is something we're
calling explainers, and it's something that people might not term as data stories at all
because of that. But just like a good data story, these too start with the question. This time,
that question is just often a how instead of a why. Here's one of the best examples of. an
explainer piece. It's called The Parable of the Polygons by Vi Hart and Nicky Case -- your
guide through the topic of segregation by these adorable and relatable little squares and
triangles. And they make a very complex topic and often heated topic, way more relatable.
The next example we'll look at is How to Tune a Guitar by Matthew Conlan and Alex Kale.
This takes page out of those kind of guitar tab liner books that you used when you were a
teenager trying to learn how to play Green Day and instead teaches you how to tune the
guitar interactively. And you can interact with this guitar and actually tune it yourself. Click
on all the chords. So while it's not telling a completely linear story, it is telling a very
specific one and it is teaching you something in the process. So now you've seen some
examples of what types of data stories are out there. In the next video, we'll take a look at
what makes a good data story.
