Embedding external content with Data Studio
It is helpful to keep in mind that Data Studio dashboards not only lets you create graphs,
charts and tables, but these dashboards will also let you embed external content.
For example, I'll add a new page, and in this new page, I can put any new text that I want. I
can add an image. I can add shapes, and I can also use URL embed. For example, I will
try to add a YouTube video, so here's a video from the fuel economy channel. I will copy
this link, and then I'll go back to the dashboard. And for this URL embed, I will paste the
content, hit enter, and now that video is embedded.
I can also take the source data that we have in Google Sheets. I can publish it to the web.
I can make only our selected worksheet available as a web page. I can copy this link, go
back to our dashboard, create a URL embed element, paste in the URL and hit enter. Now
the users will be able to view the data that we have, our yield data, in the dashboard itself.
If I click on the view button, we have our charts and graphs in different pages, but this
page also includes the YouTube video that we embedded and the source data in the
spreadsheet that we have.
So far in our dashboard, we've been using the only one single data source created from
the Google Sheets that we have. You should keep in mind that you can also bring in other
data sources. For example if you have a CZ file in your local storage on your computer,
you will be able to add that to your report. One way to do that would be to go to "resource,"
and "manage data resources," and then add a data source. This will again list all the
connectors that are available. And you can select a file upload connector, and then upload
your file here.
These files will be limited to 100 megabytes in size and will be uploaded to Google Cloud
storage. You can also select the BigQuery connector. And then use any BigQuery data
source that you have, or use any of the public data sets that are available in BigQuery.
Keep in mind that whenever you're using these connectors for the first time, you might
have to authorize them to make sure that these connectors work on your account with
Google Data Studio.
