このMOOCで学習するデータ･ストーリーの実例

こんにちは、私はヤン･ディエムです。データジャーナリズムサイト｢The Pudding｣のジャーナリスト兼エンジニアです。
私たちは6～8人のジャーナリストやエンジニアからなる小さな集団で、ビジュアル･ストーリーを発表しています。
今日は良いデータ･ストーリーとは何か、どのように見えるのか、この二つの要素を組み合わせてデータ･ストーリーを作る過程についてお話しします。

First let's look at kind of what is Data storytelling. And right at the top of the putting site we
say that we're a digital publication that explains ideas debated in culture with visual
essays. Still, that's a pretty open-ended statement. And whenever I try to explain what it is
I do to people always end up pulling out my phone and just showing them instead. But it's
important to keep that definition of what we do, and kind of what data storytelling is a bit
vague. After all, it's still evolving. Sometimes it's almost easier to describe what other types
of data visualizations exist out there in order to define what data storytelling is.
First, there's data academia and data science. We're thinking, you know, those black and
white bar graphs that you see stuck inside of scientific papers. These are often really
complex and hard to decipher. The average public just doesn't really connect with them.
Historically, that's because scientists had to pay per figure in their paper, so they would
cram in as much information as they could, and that would make these things really really
complex.
On the other side, there's data art. This is something that's on the opposite end of the
spectrum. Here the data often doesn't look like a traditional chart or graphic at all. Instead
it's something that looks like it belongs in a museum. It's engaging and it's captivating.
Here we're looking at Nadieh Bremer's constellation of the royal family, where you can see
kind of the familial connections between all of these royalty. Another great example of this
data art is Giorgia Lupi's La Lettura project. And it's another project that is rooted in data
but presents more as art.
Data storytelling itself exists in the sweet spot between the two. It combines the function of
academic and science data with the form of data art. It's sometimes described as
edutainment because it both informs and delights. And what differentiates data storytelling
is that your goal is to reach the broadest audience possible and to communicate a clear
narrative and clear takeaways. Next, I'm gonna show you a quick video of some of the
puddings work to give you an idea of what our data storytelling looks like. And I'll catch up
with you guys in the next video where we'll run through a brief history lesson of how we got
to where we are today.
