Template-Specific Story Tips: Map Stories and Survey Stories
In this video, I want to talk about how to make the most out of some of the Flourish map
templates using stories. So how did to kind of do a map story. So right now I'm here in the
marker map template, 3D market map, which is cool, it's very-- you can zoom around and
you can pan and change the angle and stuff like that. So the map I have is this sort of cool
image as marker map of different London landmarks and say, for example, you wanted to
sort of make a, make a story or in some way. Sort of zoom around the map and look at
each of the landmarks. In more of sort of granular detail like where they are and give a
little bit of information of each of them. Here's Buckingham Palace and you can see the
fountain in front of it and then St. James Park and everything like that.
The best way to do this is to use this story. So it's also worth pointing out that some times
people get confused with how sort of saving views and stuff works in Flourish. And there's
another video where we talk about one side stories. But for example, if I wanted to zoom in
on, this is Picadilly Circus, and show where that is. And a lot of people think that once you
zoom in here, in the visulization, export, republish, go to map, that it should save that view.
But in fact, it's just going to sort of revert to the original view of the map. So another way to
do that is using a story as well. So I'm going to show you kind of how this works. So here I
am in the visualization editor, I'm just going to click, "create a story", and it's gonna give
me this map as the firsrt slide in the story. So, it's really quite a cool feature to get the most
out of these maps you really should be making stories because it's really quite sort of
dynamic and visually striking to see these.
So, for example, I wanted to sort of say here's a map of a bunch of different London
landmarks. And sort of give a general overview. When you're in the story editor, you can
kind of drag, unlike in the visualization, or you can kind of drag and zoom to get, and the
editor will save that view. So that's our sort of main view. And then say, I'll duplicate this
slide to get the, to keep the same visualization. And then I kind of zoom in on Hyde Park
and I'm like, give it a little caption like this is, this is Hyde Park, the largest park in London.
And then I duplicate that again. And I'm going to zoom out and sort of zoom in on
something else. Paddington Station, I think this is probably. Yeah. Get that off. Here's
Paddington Station. Watch out for bears.
Then I do another one and say in the next one I want to kind of zoom across and let's look
at the Tower of London. But instead of kind of just keeping it at the same angle, I want to
kind of pan around. So you can kind of see it in a cool angle. And finally, here's the Tower
of London.
So now if I export and publish a story, publish. This right from the beginning, you can kind
of see all of the markers and then you can see how it really nicely animates and sort of
zooms around to the different views, and it's really quite striking. A couple of other things
to point out is that to sort of zoom, let me make another slide. So to sort of zoom in and out
on a Mac, it's just sort of the scroll bar in and out, or control in and out. Depending on the
settings that you've set in the template itself. And then to sort of do the, you can also
obviously use these buttons if you'd like, and then to sort of do the panning and changing
the angle, you hold control and use your mouse or your trackpad to kind of move around.
And you can also sort of drag around like you would on a normal map as well.
So I hope that that sort of explains when and why you'd want to use a map story,
especially with these 3D maps that are really cool and have a lot of cool like street names
and stuff like that on there. It's really the best way to get, to use these map templates, and
I hope that helps you in that you give it a try.
In this video, I'm going to talk about how to use stories to sort of make the most out of the
survey template and do your best sort of survey template storytelling. So let's get started.
So this is a survey visualization, as you can see I'm in the visualization editor. And this is a
survey that's showing each each dot is a country in the world and it has a bunch of
different sort of metrics. You can see when I hover over this one Bolivia population area,
population density, coastline, blah, blah. So the problem with the survey template is that
you can't so, you can't sort of save the view that you have in the visualization editor. Let
me show you what I mean by that.
If I grouped these by continent and then size or shaded them by continent. So each
content is a different color. We have, you know, North America, Europe, Asia, etc.. And
then I export and publish and go to that new published visualization. The visualization itself
that I open, the public visualization comes back and shows me this without the groupings
and shadings. And that's because this is a sort of point of view that you can't save using
the visualization editor, you need to use the story editor instead. So to make the best of
the survey template, it's really necessary to use stories. So here I am in mobilization and
I'm going to create a story.
And now once I'm in the story, I can start off here on the first slide showing, you know,
these are the countries in the world. Each dot represents one country. And then if I
duplicate this slide, I can group those by continent and shade them by continent like I did
in the visualization editor. But this time, it will save the state. So here are the countries
grouped and shaded by continent. You can see North America has the fewest number of
countries. And then I can sort of. Say I want to size by population, so now all the dots are
sized by population in addition to being shaded by continent. So I would say something
here about, you know, Asia has both a large number of countries as well as the countries
with the largest populations.
And one trick to know about this is that you can get rid of this little box here. Because
stories are interactive, you can always leave the box there and allow people who are
looking at reading the story to be able to do the stuff by themselves. But you can also
delete this box so that it isn't possible for your readers to change the groupings and stuff.
There's this box. This little wheel here in the corner, which lets you get the box back. So if
you make a mistake, you can always change things. So, for example, in this one, I'm going
to put them on a map like that.
And then it's often nice at the end of a survey story to give the readers a slide where you
tell them to explore the data set themselves. So, explore the dataset yourself using the box
in the bottom right corner. So if we take a look at this story now. Publish it. It's quite
visually striking because the dots dynamically move around, and resize, and then move on
to the map. And this really is the best way to use the survey visualization, the survey
template, is really the best way is to use it in conjunction with the story feature.
So I hope that explains a little more about how to best use the survey template and what
stories can do for your surveys.
