The Line, Bar and Pie Charts Template
In this video, I'm going to be talking more in depth about our line, bar, and pie charts
template. So let's get started. So here I am in the line, bar, and pie charts template. I
currently have, click up there for a second, I currently have the stacked column chart
selected. So the first thing to know is that this chart type settings block up here is where
you change the type of chart. So because this chart can do so many different types, there
are a couple of different, well there are a bunch of different types that you can choose
from.
So right now I'm here in stacked column chart, but I could also make this into a grouped
column chart, which is pretty much the same. It's just that there are individual bars instead
of them stacked on top of each other. I can also make it into a percentage one, which
means that the template sort of reads each column by itself and then decides what
percentage to give each of the sections. And then I can also do the same thing, but do it
horizontally as a stacked bar or grouped bar and whatnot. I think it's important to sort of
look a little bit more in depth about how this works because it's kind of important to know
how the data is structured to be able to choose and get your data in the right way and
choose the right chart type.
So in this case, you can see each of these colors here is just one of these columns and
then each of these bars is a row, and the same goes for when you choose a column type.
They're just sort of rotated 90 degrees. When it comes to line charts, which this template
can also do, it takes each of the columns in the data and makes that one line. So if I
wanted to get rid of line four, this sort of pinky purple line, I would just get rid of the data in
column 4. And there it's gone. Let's get that back. Whoops. There we go.
So it's also worth pointing out that this chart can do pie charts as well. Unlike the line,
column, and bar options, the pie kind of works in a different way, which is that it makes
each of the rows. So in this case, these were years that were along our x axis, but now
they're a segment in the pie chart. So that kind of changes the data structure a little bit for
pie charts, but it's still pretty intuitive.
I'm going to go back to column stacked, just to show you one more quick feature, which is
that these charts can all be made into grids of charts instead. So if I click grid of charts, it
will make each of the columns here into a different mini chart. So we have 2009 to 2017 in
each of these. And you can kind of change how this works by giving this charts grid
column setting a column, so I can change it to A which will give me a chart for each of the
entries in this column, so in this case, each of the years. So that's pretty useful when
you're trying to make small multiples, but let's go back to this normal view for now.
Just because this is such a big template that does so many different things, there are a lot
of different settings, and so I'm not going to be able to explain all of them, but I'm going to
give it a go to explain the ones that are most useful and interesting and confusing. So the
main one that I can think of now is this color, chart colors, different color modes setting. So
it's pretty unique to this template, and I think it's semi-confusing because it has two
different modes and they sometimes visually mean different things when you're selected
on different templates or different chart types.
So in this case, you can color by column or by row. So in this case, we actually are
coloring by column because this is actually coloring by the column of data, not the column
in the actual chart. So it looks like we're coloring by row, but we're actually coloring by
column because this is the different columns in the data. If I click by row, each of these
columns are going to become a different color. This is because, you know, now we're
coloring by 2009, 2010, 2011 and sort of column one, two, three, four. This is really useful
when you have a bar that you want to highlight.
So I'm going to just make this a single column chart for now and say, for example, I
wanted to highlight one of these columns. What I would do would be there's a couple of
different ways to do this. So you can either take your color palette and delete most of the
colors and then add other ones back. So they're all the same except for one of them. So
now I'm highlighting this and the color palette is kind of showing this. You can also just do
custom overrides. So if I wanted to do 2009 red, 2010 red, 2011 blue, I could do that as
well. But if I click back to by column, this isn't going to work because we're coloring. This is
one column and so it's all going to be the same color. So that's why it's important to
understand how these work. And then by column then by row corresponds to the data and
not to what you're seeing here in the preview.
Some other things, you can turn on the legend, you can turn off the legend. Oftentimes
turning off the legend makes it more sort of clear. There's this interesting add data colors
to text option, which I will now show you. So basically what this does is automatically
highlights color in the header text if you have the name of a column in there. So if I wrote
this is the header for this chart with 2010 in it, you can see the 2010 is now being
highlighted by the color that the column is, which is pretty cool. And then I did 2011 is in it
too. Now it's being highlighted by that color. So this is a kind of legend that you can use as
well.
You can add a filter. There's a bunch, you can add data labels to each column or row,
depending on what chart you're using. You can add annotations, which we have several
videos on that as well. This is really a template that you can do a lot with, and I hope that
this sort of explained some of the more confusing features for the line, bar, pie template.
