How does Data Studio work
Before we start using the tool, let's see how Data Studio works. This is the overall workflow
when you're trying to use your data set in Data Studio. Let's say you have a data set in
some source. First you'll have to connect with a data source, then you analyze and
visualize that in Data Studio and then you share whatever you've created.
The first step is connecting. To connect to your data, you use different connectors in Data
Studio. There over 160 connectors available from Google and from other providers, and
you can use these connectors to pull your data sets from more than 500 different sources.
There are a lot of data sources over here and in this course we'll be focusing mostly on the
file upload and Google Sheets connector. And we'll also try to talk a little bit about the
BigQuery connector later on. Once you've connected to your data using those connectors,
now your data is ready to be used in Data Studio. That's where you both analyze and
visualize the data that you have connected.
There are different tools and features available within Data Studio that helps you to
analyze your data. There is the Explorer feature that lets you quickly do ad hoc analysis to
get answers to questions. You can also use Data Blending to merge data from different
sources. You can use Custom Functions to create your own fields and columns in your
data. Charts and tables lets you visualize your data on your dashboards. You can bring
External Content using iframes or images. And there's also Report Gallery available which
work as templates which you can just use to create your own visualization from an already
established template rather than starting from scratch.
So let's say you've used all of these features and you've created a dashboard or a report
that visualizes your data. The next step would be to share what you have, whatever you've
created. There are different ways of sharing as well. You can share your dashboard
directly by using a link or by email addresses. Normally when you create a dashboard you
can only see it yourself, but you can then give a view access for the dashboard to other
people using their e-mail addresses or you can share by link where you create a link and
whoever you give that link to can access that and then view the dashboard. You can also
give out edit permissions.
You can take your dashboard and embed it in external websites using iframes or oEmbed.
You can also create PDFs and send those out. You can generate scheduled emails where
people can get a PDF copy of your report on a regular interval in their email addresses. So
that's the broader floor for using Data Studio. Next we'll head into the tool and go through
each of these steps one by one using a data set.
To start using Data Studio, open up your browser and go to datastudio.google.com. If this
is your first time using the application you probably will have to go to the workflow and
provide necessary permissions to the application so that it can run on your account. Once
you've completed the workflow this is the home place that we'll see. In this home page you
can have a look at all the reports, data sources and explorer views that you have access
to. And we'll going to all of these in detail. On the left side you have the list of recent items
and also the items that have been shared with you and the "create" button will let you
create new items like reports or data sources. Reports are basically your dashboards.
These are the files that you create where you attach your data and then create charts
visualizations, add images, text. And you'll be sharing these with your viewers who'll be
able to then view and interact with them.
Data sources are what let you bring in data into your report. A very simplistic way to think
about data sources are data tables that you have access to in your report and that you can
visualize. To create a new data source you'll basically click on the "create" button and
select "data source" and from there you can select any of these connectors that are
available in Data Studio and then provide the necessary configuration within them. For
example, I can select the Google Sheets connector and then from there I can select a
specific spreadsheet and then from there select a specific worksheet or arrange and then
connect. Once I do that, Data Studio will create a new data source and this data source
then can be attached to different reports and then that data from this specific worksheet
will be able to you'll be able to access that data in your reports and then visualize that. One
thing you should keep in mind is a same data source can be used across different reports
and a single report can have one or more data sources attached to it. Next we'll create our
first report in Data Studio.
