Reading too much into a visualization
別の例も見てみましょう。先日、ソーシャルメディア上でオバマケア（医療費負担適正化法）が経済に良い影響を与えているのか、それとも悪影響なのかという論争を目にしました。
アメリカに住んでいない人のために説明すると、この法律はオバマ政権下で、民間の健康保険を一般市民が利用しやすいものにしようと可決されました。
詳細には立ち入らないでおきます。検索して、医療費負担適正化法について学ぶことが出来ます。
端的に言えば、アメリカではこの政策が雇用市場にとって良い物か悪い物か論争が続いています。
右派を含む保守派の一部は、医療費負担適正化法が企業の労働者雇用を妨げていると批判する傾向があります。
一方、左派や民主党、リベラル派は、医療費負担適正化法は経済だけでなく、健康保険に加入できるので市民のためになると論じる傾向があります。
私は経済学者ではないので、（雇用への影響についての）意見は控えます。ただ、チャートについては言うべきことがあります。
議論の中で、このグラフを使ってオバマケアは雇用市場にとって悪くないと主張する人たちがいました。
彼らはこう言っていました。これは米国の民間雇用者数です。その数は2009、2010年の金融危機の際に減りました。
その後回復に転じ、線が「U」字型になっています。金融危機で減少し、その後改善していきます。そしてその傾向は過去数年間継続しています。
オバマケアが承認されたのは2010年３月でした。雇用の改善、曲線の曲がる時点で何が起きたのか見てみましょう。
曲線の変化と、オバマケア（の法案）の議会通過との間に因果関係があることを暗示しています。
ここにはいくつかの問題があることに注意が必要です。まず第一に、私たちは皆、毎日目にする情報に、信じたいことを投影しがちです。これを確証バイアスといいます。
オバマケア (医療費負担適正化法) が雇用市場にとって良いと信じたいのであれば、このグラフを見ると即座に曲線の方向の変化とオバマケアの通過との間に因果関係があるという結論に飛びつきがちです。
しかし、それは本当ではないかもしれません。これはチャートを読み解くための重要な原則です。
グラフには表示したい情報だけが表示され、それ以外は省略されます。このチャートが示しているのは時期的に一致しているということだけです。
曲線の転換、雇用市場の回復、オバマケア法案の通過の時期が一致しているということです。
しかし、だからといってオバマケアが雇用市場の回復と関係があるということではありません。そうかもしれません。実際のところはわかりません。しかし、グラフはそれを証明するものではありません。その議論には、もっと情報が必要なのです。
また、チャートを見るたび慣れなくてはいけないことの一つに反事実、つまり代替シナリオについて考えることがあります。
オバマケア法案が通過していなかったとしたら、この雇用曲線はどのように解釈できるでしょうか。

So let's say each one of these elements separately. First of all, you could think about other
possible explanations for this change of direction of the curve. For example, and this is just
a guess, I'm not saying that this is true. Right? But this is sort of a guess that I made.
Right. Perhaps the change of direction of the curve, the recovery of the job market, tt may
be related to the Affordable Care Act. It could be that perhaps for some reason companies
are hiring faster because of Obamacare. I don't know. But it is I think, and it may be wrong,
I think that it's more likely that the change of direction of the curve, the recovery in the job
market, is a little bit more related to the fact that a few months before President Obama
pass a stimulus package. The government, the U.S. government, injected billions of
dollars in the economy to stimulate banks, to lend money to companies, so companies
could start recovering, could start hiring more people later on.
So those two factors may have contributed to the recovery of the job market. Right? And
then counterfactual or alternative scenarios. What would have happened if Obamacare
was never passed? What about if Obamacare was never passed? What about, if for
example, the Supreme Court killed Obamacare at some point during the discussions? How
would the job market look like? Would it look the same either with or without Obamacare?
That would mean that Obamacare has nothing to do with the job market. It doesn't affect
the job market whatsoever, or would the curve look like this? Would the recovery have
been much faster? Meaning that Obamacare is bad for the job market because it's actually
hindering the ability of companies to hire more workers? Or would the curve look like this?
Right. It would be less steep, meaning that Obamacare is actually good for the job market,
right? Because without Obamacare, companies would hire at a much lower rate. Much,
much lower rate.
We don't know. Why don't we know? Because our chart shows only what it shows, and
nothing else. If we want to find out about all these factors, contributors to the recovery and
so on and so forth, we will need to dig deeper into data in order to gain understanding. The
chart itself, the original chart itself, all that it showed was that there was a coincidence in
time between the recovery and the passing of Obamacare. But we should never jump to
causal connections between elements, or between phenomena, based on a single chart
alone, because we are all prone to the confirmation bias.
I'm actually going to disclose. I'm a fan of Obamacare. I come from Europe. I come from
Spain. And in Spain, we have a publicly funded, tax-funded health care, and it works
relatively well. It's relatively affordable through taxes and so on and so forth. And I like that
system. So I happen to be a fan of Obamacare. I'm the kind of person who would make
that argument based on this chart. If I didn't know better, I would jump to the conclusion,
"Oh, Obamacare is great. Take a look at the job market, how we recovered after
Obamacare.".
We need to be extremely careful when reading charts. Because again, charts show only
what they show and nothing else. Everything else that you see on a chart is not in the
chart. It's happening in your brain. And we all need to become aware of this fact.
