Anyone can be a data journalist

こんにちは、サイモン・ロジャースです。今日は、誰もがデータ・ジャーナリストになれるという話をしに来ました。
いまやデータ・ジャーナリストは手が届かない存在だとか、難しそうというものではありません。誰もがとても簡単に始められ、興味深いストーリーを伝えるツールを使うことができるようになったからです。
私はずっと新聞業界で働いてきました。私はガーディアン・ニュース・アンリミテッドの編集長で、データブログを開設し、「Facts are Sacred」など数冊の著書があります。
その後Twitter社の最初のデータエディターを経て、現在はGoogle News Labでデータエディターをしています。
Google NewsラボはGoogle社のグローバルチームの一つで、報道各社を支援しています。私たちは報道機関とGoogleをつなぐ架け橋のような存在なのです。
私の専門分野はデータ・ジャーナリズムと編集局の革新です。私は視覚化やデータ・ストーリーテリング、機械学習やVRといった報道技術の革新に心血を注いでいます。
私の経歴やデータ・ジャーナリズムの世界に入ったいきさつを少しお話ししましょう。
若かったころは、データなんて全く縁遠いものでした。数学は苦手だったし、数字を使った仕事は考えられませんでした。言葉を使った仕事がしたかったのです。
振り返ってみると、ストーリーを新しい方法で伝えることは私にとって刺激的なことでした。
かつて私は世界の仕組みをイラストで解説する子ども向けのイラストレーター、リチャード・スカーリーに夢中でした。私も同じように世界がどう動いでいるのかを説明したいと思いました。
リチャード・スカーリーの本に出てくる記者はかっこいいだけではなく、大きなニンジン型のペンを持ってあちこち駆け回っていました。
でも、（彼の本の）大きな魅力は説明の仕方にあります。これは船の絵です。漫画風で、見ていて楽しいイラストですが、これを見れば船がどのように動くのか、エンジンがどのようにして働いているのかのかわかるでしょう。
漫画風のイラストには100％の精度は望めませんが、子どもの私にも、いや理解したいと思う誰にでも分かりやすく物事を説明する方法でした。

So this kind of led into me, certainly writing and working with designers on children's
books. And when I first did these books, I thought, well, this is kind of interesting. But now I
realised actually for a lot of children, really understanding the world visually is a way of
understanding it better because the world is gray and difficult to comprehend. And actually
using numbers can help make that more accessible to help make that easier to
comprehend. Certainly when you're when you're young, because we are engaged by
pictures long before we learn to read. We understand visuals way better than we
understand words and way better than we understand raw numbers. And that can really
help you to kind of comprehend how data can be used to tell stories in better ways.
So part of that is really how we're at a stage now where anybody can do data journalism,
anybody can get into it and able you can begin. Doesn't necessarily mean there's going to
be great. It doesn't matter. It's the fact that anybody can get into this field now. This is a
fanzine from 1976 called Dire Sideburns was a punk fanzine. And this is the sideburns
theory of punk, which here's a chord. Here's another. This is the third. Now former band.
And there is believe it or not a data journalism version of that, which is this the date set.
Here's another date set. Here are some free tools. Now become a data journalist.
We're really at a stage where that is possible and there are lots of reasons for that
happening. And we've seen this around the world now. Data journalism has truly become
mainstream. We did a survey of newsrooms and we found over half of all newsrooms have
a dedicated data journalist, particularly in digital newsrooms where it's 60 percent. It's a
global phenomenon. This from the data journalism awards. You can really see how we had
hundreds of entries. They were from round the world, half of the where from small
newsrooms. There were 57 countries. And we've seen entries. And winners. It's like The
Wall Street Journal from. We have had winners from Serbia, from Brazil, from Colombia,
from Germany, from Russia and Ukraine. It's really a global phenomenon now. And part of
that is because of the accessibility of the tools needed for data journalism. Those tools are
getting better and better.
We've come a long way since things like this. Where essentially you could only make
these kind of charts to showcase a story. This is something that was made using a tool
called Carto. It shows sun rising around the world whilst people are tweeting about it. Very,
very simple, but unimaginable a few years ago that anybody could just make that without
being a hard core developer.
This map shows the Earth's wind patterns. Really worth checking out. But the person who
did this taught themselves how to code, taught themselves how to build that design. And
that's an incredibly powerful strength that we have. It's like a superpower. You have the
superpower now to create data journalism and we can see people doing that. John
Bird-Murdoch is visual journalist at the Financial Times, who taught himself how to design
sophisticated and complicated visuals. From a journalism background that would never
have been possible a few years ago.
But life as a data journalist can be isolating. Often people are working on their own in a
sole practitioner places. There's no career path often for the data journalist. When the data
journalist leaves, no two really knows how to replace them. So not feeling isolated is really
important. And I think that has led to a feeling among data journalists of the importance
and power of working together. And there are certainly things to help you do that. There's
the Data Journalism Handbook. Just been published in a brand new edition, which really
brings together the world's best practice and the best ways to produce data journalism
today. And the way we work now, so we don't have to feel on your own.
And really, it's not about being a coder anymore. It can help. But it's not just about doing
that. We have tools like Flourish, which you can learn about on this course elsewhere and
Flourish is an amazing tool for creating visuals without being a developer or a designer or
a coder and allows you to select different templates and really tell a story in interesting and
exciting visual ways.
Things like tile grams, which is just a Github tool which allows anybody to make these kind
of maps where you're really showing our geography in different ways. Sort of thing that
would have been very tricky before now is freely and openly available to interactive for
yourself. Now I work a lot with new data sets. You know, a few years ago, we didn't have
access to, say, Twitter data or Google data, which is what I work with. So I really can talk a
little bit now about that data and how it can tell stories in interesting ways and read doing
that as a way to kind of illustrate the accessibility of data now.
First thing to say about Google data is there is a lot of it. It's very, very big. There are
billions of searches every single day. And I made this map actually using Carto. Where I
geographically posted every single city around the world where you can see Google data,
where you can actually learn about Google data. It doesn't go below city level, but it goes
from national, global, regional down to down city level. And I removed the map in the
background. So really it's just a set of dots which are kind of like the world's brain that tells
us where we are. And our natural kind of light guide to the world. Certainly is beyond the
kind of echo chamber of social media. I would say and really gives you an idea, very kind
granular level of what people care about, what people are interested about. It's incredibly
honest.
This is a data set that I pulled last year showing on average where people are searching
for gun shot versus gun control, people for buying guns vs. controlling them. And you can
see how some states are are colored up in different ways there. Because you're never as
honest as you are with your search engine. But after one particular shootings in
Philadelphia, the map changed. It shifted straight away. And that honesty is really
interesting to see.
We did this project with The Washington Post, where we looked at the top searches that
were put in by people looking for same sex marriage in 2004 and 2015. And you can see
how people's attitudes towards same sex marriage changed over time as the country kind
of chilled out about it and became less of a huge deal. And right now, in 2019, it's hard to
imagine some of the things that people were searching in 2004, because you know our
attitudes change over time.
You can find a lot of this stuff yourself trends.google.com. It's really a site where it's very,
very easy to go and search for yourself and really see how people are searching for
particular issues and topics over time. They don't have to all be heavy and difficult
subjects. This is a map showing searches for donuts versus searches for cuissant around
the world. Let's see if you can guess which color is which over time.
And those kind of issues are very, very easy to do with Google Trends. And theres an
immediacy to it, which is really interesting. This was a visualization we put together after
the Paris attacks in 2015. You could see how people were starting to search for this story
around the globe within minutes of it happening.
We also try and surface other data sets within Google. Some of them are more available
than others. This is a map that shows visits to different kinds of restaurants over time and
across the country. See where people care about pizza or coffee or Mexican food or Italian
food or sandwiches or seafood.
And this is really about us trying to make that data more accessible and easier to get at.
And there is really a thing with data journalism, which is very important was the vital
necessity of being open. It's very easy to just produce something and do something clever
and produce a visualization and then not make it necessarily open for other people to to
use. I've always wanted to produce data in a way that's reproducible by others that they
could take that data and tell a story perhaps in a better way. And that is very, very
important then to be open and make that data as accessible as possible.
And you can see that now around the world where people are taking public data sets and
then making them accessible and making them open, like IndiaSpend, which takes public
data within India and then produces really interesting websites, allowing people to explore
it for themselves because often public data was produced originally in ways that are
difficult to use.
And you can see now that every mainstream data journalism publication will have an open
data site where you can go and get that data for yourself and then go and play with it for
yourself. And you might be able to tell our story in a more interesting way than the upshot
or having the posters done, because you'll come to that data with your own set of
preconceptions, but also your own set of interests about what might tell a story in an
interesting way.
I'm going to talk a little bit now about process, because for me, this is how I work. Certainly
when I was at The Guardian, but it's also how we work now. And working with data can be
tricky. So this is really how it works for me. Often we begin with the data itself. Might that
data may have come from Google Trends or it may be you may be in send that data, there
may be a recurring event. Something as interesting. It might be a theory that you want to
explore. And often data journalism really is not necessarily a very sophisticated statistical
operation. Often what you're doing is telling stories. You may be saying this thing is big on
that thing or this thing has changed over time or this is how one place compares to
another. So that work doesn't necessarily have to be super complex at this point. But
knowing roughly what you want to do with the data can be really important. Do you want to
compare or show change? What does the data mean? What other data sets can you mash
up and bring together with it? And often two data sets are almost always better than one.
Where you have to bring things together. There can always be a better way to tell story.
And often then you have this whole process where you really have to kind of get rid of the
messiness of the data and process it and work with and often a lot of the work that data
journalists spend a lot of time doing is that backhand mashing data sets up getting data
sets to work together, removing the merge cells or the unnecessary columns of data that
people put into often make spreadsheets look prettier.
But at the end of that, you can perform those calculations and that really leads to output.
And output is a weird term. It sounds a bit like a kind of engineering, programing term. In a
way that's what you're doing because there is no set way to tell a story with data
journalism. You might produce a video, you might produce an animation, you might
produce just a story of just publishing on social media. The fact that you discover that this
thing is bigger than that thing might be enough. I might be all you need that to do that day.
Or it might be a complex interactive. It's that variety of storytelling methods that makes
data journalism so compelling and so interesting and so powerful right now.
I'm going to show you this link, too, because this is often how you start. You need to begin
with data, right? So we actually publish all the data that we work with on a Github page
and you can see it there. And that's really where you could begin. You could go there, find
some data that we've already worked with. It's already being kind of processed and begin
there. Begin with that storytelling process.
I always am with James Cameron, who is British journalist in the 50s and 60s, partly
because he's an amazing journalist. I'm a really big fan of his work. Both sides kind of think
this. This quote from him is very apposite, that "The new world be a place of answers and
no questions, because the only questions left will be asked by computers, because only
computers will know what to ask." And I take that to mean that we're at a stage now where
we can ask questions of data and do stuff with data we never could before because of the
access to technology that we have now. That's an incredibly powerful place to be. But
what that means is that you can kind of get carried away and produce things that are over
compacts or just because they're pretty and they don't really do anything. So there's a kind
of simple thing that's really important to remember that what we're doing is all about telling
stories in the best way possible. But it's about that raw journalistic exercise of telling
stories and making that data as accessible as possible. Thank you. Now onto the course.
