Introduction to Data Studio
こんにちは、ミナズ・カジです。Hi everyone, my name is Minhaz Kazi. I'm a developer advocate at Google. Data
visualization has been a lifelong passion for me. I've worked as a graphic designer, a
financial analyst and a front end developer but now in a part of the Data Studio team. Data
Studio is a freely available data visualization and reporting tools from Google. As a
developer advocate, I help developers and users like you to get the most out of the tool
and to use it properly.
This week's lecture is about finding stories with data and that is a process that takes a lot
of steps. You have to first have some idea about the topic that you're going to discuss. You
have to have some domain knowledge, and then find out what are all that data sets that
are out there that you might be able to use. Explore the data sets a little bit and then find
out and which one might be more relevant to you, filter down to one or two. Then bring
those datasets into the tool that you're going to use. Start exploring the data. Find out all
the variables that are there. See the relationships between them. See if there are any
exceptions or any trends, and then from there you can get some insights.
But the insights on themselves are not that useful. You have to figure out how the insights
relate to each other, how the insights fit into the entire narrative. Then you can start laying
out your own data story. You can take all these insights, build your own report or
dashboard, or an infographic and then share with everyone.
This week's lecture is about finding stories with data. To build your own story with data,
you have to follow a few steps. First you have to have some domain knowledge about the
topic that you are going to explore. See all the data sets that are out there, maybe filter
down to one or two that are relevant to you and start exploring them. You can bring in
those data sets into the tool that you're using and look at all the variables that are there.
Find out the relationships between different variables, look at exceptions look at
anomalies, and then from there you can get some insights.
But those insights on their own are not enough. You have to sort of take those insights and
see how they fit into the whole narrative, how they relate to each other. And once you have
that down you can start building your own report or dashboard or infographic. And once
that's built you can take that and share it with others.
In this week's lecture we'll tell you how to tell your own data story using Data Studio. We'll
show you what Data Studio is all about how it works how you can bring in different data
sources and analyze them. How we can build beautiful and interactive visualizations and
publish them. Let's get started.
