When to Use Machine Learning 
報道機関の編集局が機械学習を利用した事例についてご紹介してきました。ここでは、プロジェクトで機械学習を使うべきか否かを判断するガイドラインを教えます。
最初に自問すべきは、モデルを構築しようとしているものがなんであれ、それが手動で実行できるかどうかということです。
例えば、犯罪について調べているとしましょう。分類しなくてはいけない300件の報告書があります。これらを分類するモデルを構築するためには、あなたやインターンが手動で分類するよりも多くのデータを必要とするため、時間が掛かります。
一度にできることなら、手でやった方がいいでしょう。
次は、必要なデータセットがあるかどうかです。既存のモデルを使用できる課題は多く存在します。これは後で、ツールのセクションで説明します。
写真に何が写っているのかを知りたい場合－それは像なのか、椅子なのか、犬なのか－膨大なトレーニングセットは必要ありません。既存のモデルを使えるからです。
しかし、偵察機を特定したいというような特殊なことをしたいなら、何千、何百ものフライト記録とそのラベルが必要になるでしょう。
そのためには、データを持っているか、データがどこにあるか知っているか、またはデータセットを作成するために投資するつもりがあるのか、このいずれかが必要になります。
さらに次の質問は、「説明できること」です。ご存じだとは思いますが、機械学習モデル、特にニューラルネットワークが下した予測は、どのようにしてその結論になったのかを知ることができないことがあります。
たとえば、ある犯罪が暴力犯罪に分類された場合、モデルはどの記述から暴力犯罪と判断したのでしょう。
それは制作者であっても、常に把握できるものではありません。


 Sometimes it doesn't matter if you understand why a model came to a decision. Because like, for example, in the L.A. Times case, when we were trying to see whether or not a crime was misclassified as being violent, the reporters and the editors could go through and say, "OK, this model made this prediction, but let me just verify that it was correct." 
So, you know, the model is just is helping you in a way, but the editor is always there verifying the results. But you have to consider whether when you're reporting your story, what the model did, if that matters, because it might be that you can't really get a satisfying explanation of why the model made a certain decision.
 And finally, and most importantly: Can you tolerate error? All machine learning models pretty much make errors. It's just inevitable. And the correct way to use machine learning is to account for those errors, to understand when they're really bad, to understand when they're acceptable, and to understand how to handle them. So what I've sort of been emphasizing is you really want to use machine learning with regular reporting complementarity.
 And I think of it as sort of using machine learning to find needles in haystacks or to find leads in tons of tons of data, where a model says you might want to investigate this plane or you might want to investigate whether this crime was violent or not. So you work with the model, but you know, that it will make errors. So just to account for that in your reporting process. I hope that is a good summary of when you should and shouldn't use machine learning.
