How to get from idea to execution
Hey, everyone. Welcome back to Video 3 in Module 6. In the last video, we showcased a
bunch of examples of data stories. But how do you get from an idea to the final product? In
this video, we'll talk about that. We'll look at how The Pudding finds and vets its stories and
what makes them special.
So let's jump right in. The first question we often get asked is how do you find stories? And
the answer is simple: Question first.
Often people assume that we must spend our day scouring the Internet for cool datasets
or finding trends and patterns in everyday life. But it's quite the opposite. Almost all of our
stories start with the question.
In fact, if you scroll down through our archive, a lot of the questions reveal themselves to
you in the headlines. So how often names are in songs? How much data lies behind the
paper you're reading? Why Budapest, Warsaw and Lithuania split themselves in two? How
algorithms know what you'll type next. Who is the biggest pop star? And how many high
school stars make it in the NBA?
Starting with the question gives you a clear purpose, and it makes it easier to
communicate your idea with someone else. The inevitable follow up question that we get
asked is, so where do your questions come from? And the bad news is there's no one
secret source for inspiration. But the good news is the questions can come from anywhere.
I'm a big believer in shower epiphanies, the latest podcast you listened to, something that
happened during your commute. Anything can spark a question. The most important thing
you can do is make a note of that initial spark of curiosity.
At The Pudding, we all keep a backlog of ideas. It's a place to jot down thoughts, make
notes of questions, and remind ourselves of subjects that we should look into further. Even
if you don't have a question yet, you might have a subject that really, really interest you.
And eventually that question will come along. We also keep a public backlog of our ideas
on our Website.
We're a small team of about six to eight journalists, engineers, and we know that we can't
possibly produce data stories for every question that comes to mind. So this is a kind of
repository, a brainstorm, a dump of ideas, that we want the public and our readers to be
able to look at and see if they want to kind of own and take care of any of these questions
for us. We're constantly accepting freelance pitches.
So from there, how do you make sure your idea is interesting? There are three main things
that we try to do.
One, does your idea spark intense debate or discussion? If you seriously can't stop talking
about the idea, you're probably on to something. The idea for Amber and I's piece on
pockets came when we were walking around New York City complaining about all the
bags we had to carry and how our phones wouldn't fit because we didn't have any
functional pockets. Months later, we were still talking about this, and everywhere we
looked we saw other women ranting, too.
The second thing you can do is to gently pitch or casually bring up your ideas to your
friends or others and gage their response. If one other person is energized by your idea,
then it's worth investigating. Don't forget to trust your instincts and follow your passions,
too, because your own excitement can be contagious and that can translate and go a long
way when you tell the story.
It's equally as important to know your audience. Who are you telling the story to? At The
Pudding, we say we write for the general public, so that answer is broad. It's everyone. But
we also make sure to ask ourselves the question, if only one person read this story. Who
is that person? Nadieh Bremer, who we mentioned in the data arts sphere, has something
she calls the dad test. And I use a similar mom test on my stories. I try to tell my mom kind
of what's going on in my head. Does it make sense? Gage her reaction. And if she can't
understand it, then I probably need to go back to the drawing board.
So what types of stories make for successful data stories? First, let's look at what works
well. The number one thing you need for data story is surprise, data. That doesn't mean it
has to be clean and perfect, or that it has to be numbers at all, or even that it has to exist
yet. You can collect it yourself, but it does mean that you need to be able to structure or
categorize that data some way. That raw information needs to be put into a pattern.
The second thing is that it needs to be broadly relatable. People want to see themselves in
stories and have connections with the data itself. It also needs to be a topic where visuals
can help make sense of the story. Can you illustrate a pattern or show a trend? People
really respond well to that kind of order making.
And the final thing, because if you haven't heard it enough and haven't heard me hit it
enough yet, your story needs to be question driven. What really sets data stories apart is
the question focus. Otherwise, you can end up with a dashboard or a data dump,
something that has a load of information but doesn't walk the reader through it in any
meaningful way.
On the flip side, here's things that don't work. The first is stories that are highly personal or
rely heavily on a human narrative, and those are because there are better avenues to tell
those stories and data stories. Often there's documentaries or photo stories or just a really
well-thought-out narrative. Stories that are too broad are also difficult to tell as data stories.
We always say don't try to boil the ocean. You're doing too much. It's an impossible task.
Instead, try to shrink back your idea, scale it back, try to boil a pot on your stove instead of
boiling the ocean.
And finally, since data stories are at their best when they're explaining something or
answering a question, topics that are too obvious or overly simplistic often don't work.
That's the water is wet model.
So when we think about our process of finding the right data stories for The Pudding, we
put them through a few paces. The first step of that is that question step, and some of the
best questions take you beyond the who, what, where and into the how and why. Those
are the types of questions that reveal those universal truths that people really gravitate
towards.
The second step is data. After all, we're still talking about data stories, and this is the step
that can often trip up a lot of newcomers. Data work is probably the most intimidating part
of the process for a lot of people. But it's important to remember that learning to work with
data is exactly as infuriating as it was at the beginning for everyone else. There's no wrong
way to solve a problem, no right language to work in, and no limit to how many times you
can Google or Stack overflow a question. Even at The Pudding, we all use different
languages for data work. And here are just a handful. We'll use are with R with R studio,
Python with pandas, Node J.S., QGIS for geographic data, MySQL, and good
old-fashioned spreadsheet programs like Google Sheets and Excel. There is no shame in
that game. We've even devoted a whole blog post to the topic of data, and you can find
that on our site. It's called How to make Dope Shit Part 1 Working With Data.
The third step in the process is storyboarding. And this step like data is also super
important because it's how people are going to absorb the information you're giving them.
So ask yourself, what's the number one thing that you want people to take away from your
story? That's a good place to start. So often at The Pudding our stories end up taking two
mirrored pass. There's the small to big approach and the big to small approach.
For the big to small type, that's where the narrative starts with a hyper specific detail or a
vignette and then works its way down to reveal a broad picture or overarching trend. I did
this with my story that looked at the gender split of gay-borhoods. The first graphic that you
scroll down to is a map of New York City. It shows you how I layered on data from Pride
March routs, gay bars tagged in Yelp, same sex unmarried partner households, and same
sex married joint tax filers to form this idea of a gay-borhood index. But of course, New
York City is just one of the 15 cities I looked at in this piece. And that's where that small to
big approach comes in. We used New York as a gateway to your larger story to explain
those larger trends.
The opposite approach means that you start big and end small, and that means broad
picture to small details. Amber and I's piece on women's pockets took this approach. In
this piece, the first graphic that you get is a scrolling version showing you the 80 pairs of
front pockets in blue jeans that we measured. It moves to the average pocket sizes for
men and women, and then tells you our overall findings that women's pockets in jeans just
suck.
We also tend to think of our stories in steps or sections, and those are independent from
one another and can move around in different puzzle-piece formats. This allows you to
rearrange that narrative quickly and alter the story flow. For example that piece on
pockets, after the first section you are released in kind of this larger section where you can
explore brand by brand and which pieces like iPhones or women's hands can fit in these
pockets. At first this section was at the complete end of the story, but because our
colleagues told us that people would really enjoy this, we moved it up. And because we
were thinking about this as kind of a modular storyboard, that was easy to do.
The fourth step in our process of data storytelling is design. Because now you know
exactly how you're going to tell the story, it's important to start designing what it looks like.
A few gifted people can sketch a few lines on a napkin, jump straight into code, design as
they go and produce something brilliant. But for the rest of us, it's important to consider
design and development as completely separate steps.
First, you'll need to figure out what form your data will take. And a great starting point for
this is the Financial Times's visual vocabulary chart. It breaks down the chart types by data
relationship. So if you're looking for a correlation, a scatter plot might be the right way to
go. Next, you'll want to see how your data looks in the chart type that you've chosen.
To scaffold out data visualizations, our team at The Pudding again uses a variety of tools,
but we usually go with whatever where the most familiar with and whatever will produce
the quickest results. There's no need to fully code out your charts if you can find an
out-of-the-box tool that will give you a good idea of what your data will look like. We've
used things like Google Sheets before to create heat maps. We also work in Flourish,
which is a tool that gives you a lot of different chart types to choose from and then you're
allowed to plug in your data. We use. QGIS when we're working with maps or geographic
data.
And if there's not an out-of-the-box tool, sometimes we'll code it out ourselves. And in that
case, we'll jump into a tool called Observable where you can code out and prototype D3,
which is a data visualization library that attaches to JavaScript.
Just like it's important to start your story with the question, it's also important to consider
that question when designing your visualization. On Datawrapper's blog Chartable, Lisa
Charlotte Rost writes of a three step process when creating a chart. First, what's your
point? What's your original question or hypothesis, and can you reduce that down to a
headline? Second, make sure that that one point really comes across in your
visualizations. You can use color or type hierarchy to achieve this and make sure that your
readers are being directed to the most important point. And finally, does your chart actually
show what you want it to show? Is it clear to the reader, or do you need to add additional
context?
Finally, you'll want to design your data visualization or visualizations into a larger story
experience. At The Pudding, our main tool for a static site design is something called
Sigma. It is an online tool that is like Adobe Illustrator and that it operates in kind of
vectors. But you can pull everything together more like an InDesign tool so that you can
storyboard step by step. Sigma is also great because you can use it collaboratively.
People can leave notes. You can design together. And it kind of integrates with the web
because you can pull out your own CSS and styles.
Here we're looking at a storyboard that we did for a piece on the structure of stand up
comedy, where we focused on Ali Wong's Netflix comedy routine. In this piece, it's kind of
like a step by step one screen experience.
And when we look at the actual piece, it really didn't stray far from that original storyboard
itself. We'll take a little bit to walk through these steps.
But having a storyboard that is almost identical or very, very close to the final product is a
rarity. Most often you'll go through several iterations. And then I want to show you kind of
those iterations through a project called RioRun that I made while working at The Guardian
US. This was a phone app made for the Olympics that tracked your progress using G.P.S.,
and put you on this virtual marathon route. So you'd unlock different badges and pass
different landmarks the more you ran. This is an article on source where we kind of catalog
the entire process of how that came to be. It's how we made it. And there's a big part
about design in there. It's called adding sights to sounds.
And here the first kind of step by step mockups we did. The first version was just the test
development version. It was completely utilitarian. The colors are very brash and not
complimentary at all. But all the functionality was there, and we knew what pieces and
parts that we needed. The second version or version 2 is a little bit more polished. We're
starting to see everything come together and that all the pieces and all the functionality
while the user is going to interact with it. Things are starting to be highlighted. And then
looking at version 3, that's the final design. That's the part where we layer on all the color,
the style, really kind of make the app have a personality.
We knew that since this was a virtual app that we wanted to capture the vibe of Rio in the
app design itself. So the colors are very vibrant, and it's really the only visual that you'll get
of the city with this app. It's important to remember that design is a powerful storytelling
tool in and of itself. Done effectively, it can make an emotional connection with the reader,
but done ineffectively, it can look something like this. This is one of the most common
doors that you will see in your day to day life. The sign tells me to pull. But the horizontal
means that I should push. And that leaves me feeling like I hate doors.
And the moral of that story is that you should look in your everyday environment and see,
are there certain things that are confusing me? And if there are, those are the types of
things you don't want to do to your reader. Design should help guide them, not confuse
them.
The last step in our process of data stories is development, and because the final front end
is what people end up seeing, they assume that this step is the one that takes the longest.
In reality, though, it's the behind-the-scenes stuff like data and storyboarding that account
for the largest portion of our time.
At The Pudding are stories are built with a HTML, CSS and JavaScript with a heavy
reliance on D3 for databases. We work as much as we can in public repositories on our
GitHub so that our code is all available and accessible, and we even have a starter
template that kind of comes pre-baked with a lot of things that we would use in an average
project. And this is good because we don't have to keep reinventing the wheel. We already
have these built out, and we can use them each time.
Our starter template includes things like handlebars for HTML templating, and that
integrates with our ArchieML, which is a tool that you can write your copy or your text right
into Google Docs and then pull that in and inject that into your HTML. Our template is also
integrated with Google Sheets, and that makes it easy to pull in live data. We also have
things like inline SBG's and a chart template to make quick D3 charts.
When you're designing and developing these last two steps, it's common to hear that you
should design mobile first. After all, readers are skewing more mobile. In January, traffic to
The Pudding sites hovered around 70 percent mobile. And although we don't always
technically build stories mobile first at The Pudding, we do always make sure that they are
as delightful on mobile as they are on desktop.
In data visualizations, responsive design is no longer a buzzword. It's not something that
you can throw aside. It's simply part of the design and development process. Too often,
responsive design means a grand experience on desktop, with features slowly being
stripped back as the screen size gets smaller. But it doesn't have to be this way. We're
going to take a look at a couple of projects that The Pudding has used responsive design
to make sure that the experience is seamless on both desktop and mobile.
Here's one that Ilia and I did that looks at New York Times headlines from their archives
and finds words that appeared most frequently per decade. On the desktop version, we
have a kind of a decade by decade navigation on the left side with the text and the word
cloud in the middle chart here. And then on the right, there is another kind of aerial line
chart that you can interact with. Three column designs are terrible on mobile. So we really
had to think about this when we shrunk the down. When we look at this on a smaller
screen size, that navigation is still on the left with the decades. The text and the word
cloud is on there on the right. And then if you want to see a line chart, interact with the
word cloud and it pulls out this drawer that you can then close.
Here's another piece from Amber that takes a look at your local your geo-located data and
tells you what the weather would be like on Mars. It's a really cool project in that it sends
you postcards as if you were getting them from Mars. On desktop, those postcards look
like traditional postcards. They're horizontal and they flip over as you go. When we look at
this on mobile, this is what the project looks like. Those cards have just flipped from their
horizontal orientation to a vertical orientation. Nothing has been lost in the design. It's all
still there.
One tool that we use to go from desktop to mobile seamlessly is called Flexbox. It's used
in CSS, and it's kind of this grid-templating system. Basically, you can tell your containers,
your divs, or your boxes to either move in a row, which would be a horizontal pattern, or a
column, a vertical pattern. And then as your device shrinks, you can switch those back and
forth. You can also apply this Flexbox technique to data viz. And Amber, of our team at
The Pudding, even has a wonderful blog post on how just to make data viz using boxes
and Flexbox on our site.
