
In this video, I'm going to talk about some of the publishing options for your visualizations
and how to either publish, to Flourish, or download your visualizations and everything like
that. So the thing to know is that there are a couple of different ways to publish Flourish
visualizations for the web. And it depends on what kind of customer you are, for some of
the options. But I'm just going to run through the ones that are available and tell you what's
available on the free plan and what isn't.
So the first and most sort of common way that people publish Flourish visualizations is to
publish straight to Flourish, to our servers, and then to use an embed code to embed them
on a web page. So to do this, there's this button in the top right corner that says export and
publish. If it's unpublished, it's going to be black, and then if it's published, it's going to be
green, and if it's published but has some unpublished changes, it's going to be orange.
So let me show you how that works. So if I wanted to export and publish to Flourish, I click
this button, then click this button right here and it's going to ask me if I want to publish it
and if I want to make a password. So it can only be seen with people who have the
password. I'm going to say no, so I'm just going to click publish, and you can see now that
this is turned to green and you can see a preview of your public - of your published
visualization on this link right here. So that's what it looks like.
And then there are a couple of different embed options right below this for if you want to
embed this visualization straight onto your web page. So the main normal one is just this
one right here, which is just a normal script tag. But we also have an AMP Iframe and a
normal Iframe available as well. There's also this option for paying customers to hide the
Flourish credit when they embed the visualization on their web page. You can also click
unpublish this project right here.
But I also want to show you what happens when you have something published and you
make a change. So say, for example, this right now doesn't really have the right heading
for this chart. It's actually the 2009 to 2017 school years. So I'm going to go down here and
change this subtitle to that, and you should see here in the right hand corner, this is just
changed from green to orange. But I haven't published the changes, so green to orange
means that there are unpublished changes for a published project. And if I go here, I can
see that this still says 2009 2010 academic year, and this says 2009 to 2019. So if I click
this and click republish and go back here and refresh, this has changed. So this is a really
good way to do sort of draft things on your website. So if you are a Newsroom customer
and you are making a bunch of empty charts for an election that you just kind of want to fill
in, you can make them and then you don't have to change the embed code or anything like
that. You can just republish them to Flourish. Keep updating the data and they will update
on your website.
The other option for publishing is, well, one of the other options is to download an image
and there's a couple of different sizing options. You can size the image however you want.
This specific template, you can download a PNG, a JPEG, or an SVG. In some of the
templates, you can only download a PNG and a JPEG because of the way they're coded.
They're not coded using SVG. And you would just click download to download that, and it
would download to your computer. So that's just a static image.
And then there's also one more option for paying customers, which is this download HTML
option, which will download a modified sort of version of the chart as an HTML file. And
that is a way for people who want to host their own graphics, so for them not to be on the
Flourish server, to do that.
In this video, I'm going to talk about making one-slide stories in Flourish and the situations
in which you might want to do so, and why you'd make a one-slide story instead of just sort
of making a visualization and publishing a single visualization. I think this is something
that's quite unique to Flourish, so it definitely warrants explanation. And it's something
that's a little tricky to get your head around, but once you do, it makes a lot of sense.
So to illustrate the need and explain a situation in which you may need to do this, I'm going
to use this line chart race, which is showing UK general election results by party from
every election since 1918. So it's a line chart race so obviously it animates, which is pretty
cool. So it's getting cut off here but you can see there's a new, other parties shown at the
bottom. And say, for example, that I wanted to talk about - I wanted just to show sort of the
animation to 1970, so when the SNP - the first election where the SNP win seats. And if I
do this and have this - because using this thing, you can move the visualization back and
forth. And if I want to just show this year, sort of like this, this view, if I click export and
publish, which makes a lot of sense, you would think, OK. This is my visualization. I'm
going to export and publish it. It doesn't save that view. It starts at the beginning of the
animation and just goes straight through again. And I can even sort of do this again. Oh,
maybe something didn't work. I'm going to go to here. And then I'll export and publish
again. And it just does the same thing.
So there is a way to actually save this sort of view here, and that is using the story editor.
So if I click create a story from here, in the story editor, unlike in the visualization editor, as
we just saw, it lets you save this sort of point of view, or the view of the visualization, which
you can't do in the visualization editor. The visualization editor just lets you make the
visualization, and since all this data is in there, it's just going to play the animation. But in
the story editor you can save the view, so if I do this and go back, the same thing that I did
in the visualization editor, and now I export and publish this as a story, you know which
you can embed in the same way you would embed a visualization, it stops. It stops at this
view.
So that is the situation. A very simple and common situation in which you would want to
make a one-slide story. So there are a couple of other ones, like if you wanted to - if you
made a cool 3D map and you wanted to kind of zoom into a certain angle and a certain
view of it, that's another situation where you would want to use one-slide story.
And there is another little trick to know about this, which is that right now you can see this
navigation bar, which is where you usually would put your caption or whatever if you
wanted, and where you would click through the story, or if it was an autoplay sort of talky
situation where it would show how far along in the talk you are, but you can actually get rid
of this and embed this, so it looks basically like it would if it was just this regular line chart
visualization. And that trick is just here at the top, navigation style is on default. You can
set it to none, which will get rid of it. So that just basically looks like your regular line chart
race, but it's actually a story and no one would know really the difference if you had
embedded this somewhere on a web page.
So yeah. So I hope that sort of clears up confusion about animation and stuff like that. And
when you might want to use a one-slide story.
