Understanding Machine Learning
So what is machine learning? This is actually a pretty tough question to answer if you've
tried to Google it yourself. Because there's actually a lot of debate as to what M.L. is – like
data science, statistics, AI, machine learning. They all cover similar topics, and people
haven't agreed on what really machine learning should perfectly be defined as.
Some people think that machine learning is just automation, and that makes sense
because a lot of times applications of ML are kind of like automation. For example, maybe
you use a computer to transcribe an interview rather than a person, or you use something
like Google translate to translate text that a person would have otherwise translated.
But actually for as long as programing has existed, programmers have been automating
things. So, for example, maybe you have a floor-cleaning robot like a Roomba. Well, you
don't actually need machine learning to make that thing work. You could just write some
code that says that when the power buttons turned on, then have the thing sweep the
floor. That is not machine learning.
Furthermore, machine learning can do more than just automate. For example, it can do
things that humans can't do, like, for example, make a recommendation for what a reader
might want to read based on what they've read in the past. Or forecast, I don't know,
climate trends, or the price of bitcoin. Or make crazy artwork like this. How does that fit in
with the pattern of what the rest of machine learning is?
Well, the way that I like to find ML is that it's just finding patterns in data, and usually using
those patterns to make predictions about unseen data. You can think of it as sort of a new
programing paradigm. So what does that mean? Well, let's take a look at classification.
That's one of the types of tax people use machine learning for. One of the most common,
so let's talk about classification.
Classification is just labeling things. So maybe you have pictures of dogs and cats, and
you want to build an algorithm that given new pictures, can automatically label those dogs
and cats for you. The way that we would do this traditionally with programing, before
machine learning, is that a programmer would sit down and think what makes a cat a cat
and a dog a dog, and they would come up with a bunch of different rules in their head. And
then they would put this into their algorithms, so if an animal has a long tail and likes fish
and doesn't like people, then it's a cat. Otherwise, it's a dog. That's the traditional
programing approach.
What's different with machine learning is rather than a programmer coming up with rules, a
machine learning algorithm learns by examples and comes up with rules itself. The way
that this happens is that we build a machinery model. So first we have to collect lots of
label training data, so hundreds or thousands of pictures of cats labeled cats and dogs
labeled dogs. And hopefully many different breeds, and from different angles, and with
different lighting. We show this labeled data to a machine learning algorithm, which then
spits out a model.
So if your algorithm has done a good job, then when the model sees a new picture of a
dog, it can label it as a dog. So this in a nutshell is what machine learning is. Or, at least
that's what a classification algorithm is, which I told you is a big part of machine learning.
But again, it's sort of hard to really conceptualize all of the different ways that ML could be
applied, so what I want to do is in the next few sections, is show you a bunch of different
applications for machine learning used by newsrooms on all different sorts of data. And
then hopefully you, like a machine-learning algorithm, can learn by example what's
covered by this field.
