Annotations and Colors
In this video, I'm going to be talking about annotations in Flourish, and how annotations
work. I think that this is something that's a little bit tricky because it's different than in other
charting tools. But once you get your head around it, it's really quite straightforward, and
it's quite powerful.
So quite a few Flourish templates allow you to add notations to your charts to sort of call
attention to different parts of the visualization. And the way things are done is either along
the X axis or on the Y axis. So if you have X axis annotations, or sort of vertical
annotations. If they're on the Y axis, they're sort of horizontal annotations.
And I'm going to be showing you how they work along the X axis, but just know that it
works pretty much exactly the same along the Y. So in a lot of templates, like here in the
line bar and pie chart template, you'll have this annotations settings block under the
settings panel, and you'll just have to click this to show all the options and turn them on.
So in Flourish, there's two different types of annotations. There's line annotations, and
there's a range annotations. And they work pretty similarly. But line is just adding a line,
and then a range is just adding a range of values that are highlighted.
So what you do is that you take the value along the axis. So whatever 2013, let's say, and
you would say like annotation one text here. So whatever you wanted to put, or if you
didn't want to put anything, you can just put a space. And then two semicolons and 2013.
And it's going to add that right here.
And you can change the color. You can change the width. If you just want the text and not
the line, you can change with a zero. The default is a dash line, but if you want just a solid
line, you can change the dash to zero as well.
Range works really similarly. So if I wanted to put a range between 2014 and 2016, I
would put range highlight text. One here. And then I would put two semicolons, and then
2014, and then two of these 2016. Then that adds a range, which you can see here, the
transparent box.
You can change the opacity, so I can make it completely opaque. You could also put the
highlight above or below the data behind it, the lines. I think that's basically it. It works the
same on the X axis and Y axis. If you want to add those, you just go straight at it right
there. And hopefully that sort of clears up how to add annotations. I know it's something
that people ask a lot about because it's a little bit of a quirky feature, but once you get the
hang of it, hopefully it will make a lot of sense.
Hello, and welcome back. In this video, I'm going to talk about color and how to customize
the color of things in a Flourish template. So the first thing you should know is that pretty
much everything on this screen, the color of it can be changed using different settings over
here on the right.
The main color tool that we have in Flourish is this color paletting tool. So you can see now
that this is selected as the color palette, and we have a whole different range of color
palettes in here that are preset. So you can click through them, and it will change the
colors. If you go down to edit color palette, you can also rearrange the order of the colors,
so if you want them to be a different order or if you want to pull one from down up in, you
can see it change behind there. You can also add your own colors, so if you want to add
black on there. Or you can edit these, so if I wanted to make this first color on the bottom
red instead of yellow.
Then there's also this color overrides option, which lets you type in the name of an entity
and then type in color after it, and it will override the color palette. So for example, if I
wanted to recolor this United Kingdom category, I would type in United Kingdom, which is
the name of the entity. And then just pink, and it will change this to pink.
This can either be an HTML color name, like we have there, or also in RGB color or a hex
code. Also know that everything else on this template should have a color settings for it.
For example with the X axis, if I wanted to change the color of the lines, we can do that.
And this is just a normal color picker. Same with the labels. This is hideous, but there you
go.
And then the second thing I wanted to talk about was coloring by category and to explain
how to use the scatter template because it makes it pretty clear. Here we have a scatter
plot, and it's showing literacy rate on one axis and GDP per capita on the other. Each of
the dots are countries. And so this just shows, you know, that as the GDP goes up, the
literacy rate goes up in countries, generally.
But these are all obviously the same color. If I go through, it's just gonna pick this up.
They're being colored by this default picker, actually. But if you go back to the data sheet,
you'll notice that there's actually extra metadata here, which I could use to color the dots
differently.
In a lot of Flourish templates like the scatter, there's going to be this column setting called
color here, which allows you to color the dots based on what's in a column. Usually it's a
metadata column, but you can also use continuous columns. So the darker the color, the
larger the continuous value.
But in this case, we are going to use this B column, so I'm just going to enter this B column
here. Once I press enter, watch this in the corner, and it's going to show that the dots are
suddenly going to be colored by what's in this column. So if we go back, you can see that
these hot pink dots are in Africa. And then the dark blue dots are Western Europe. The
purple dots are Eastern Europe. And this just adds another dimension to your scatter plot.
It helps you see how this trend is broken down by region.
And yeah, I think that's about it. Thanks for listening, and I hope that helps you understand
a little bit about how color works in Flourish.
