
In this video, I'm going to talk about how to make your Flourish visualizations as mobile
and small-screen friendly as possible. The main thing to know is that Flourish
visualizations are all responsive, so if I change the size of this window, it will be
responsive. But there are a couple of tricks that you should know about how to make them
as responsive and friendly, for smaller screens especially, as possible.
So the first thing I actually just previewed just now is these buttons over here in the top left
corner. They are buttons that let you preview your visualization at different widths. So this
first one shows you the available width in this window. And then there are also the typical
tablet and typical mobile phone width. So you can click through these to see what your
visualization will look like at different widths. You can see how the text gets sort of moved
around. It's now split over two lines, versus one, the first two. And then this last button here
is also one that lets you preview it at a custom size. So if you have an Android phone or
something like that or some specific size that you'd like to look at, you can always do that.
So the other thing to know is that there are a couple of things which people do to make
their visualizations, when they're using this view, that then makes them not very mobile
friendly. So I'm going to go through a couple of those. The first is adding really long labels,
which will end up getting cut off on your mobile width. So if I made these labels are now
short, so they fit on the screen. But if I increase the text size a bit and then made this,
instead of UK, United Kingdom, made this European Union and made this North and
South America, and I went back here, you can see they're cut off. Depending on the size
of the screen, they might not be cut off on a bigger screen, but then if I go to this mobile
width they're definitely cut off.
Something that people often do to fix this issue is make the margins bigger on the left to
give more room for these labels to be seen on the bigger screen. So if I made this left 150
instead, or maybe 90, you can see now that there's enough room here on the left for the
labels. But now if I go to the mobile width it really squashes the chart over here. And if I did
this even more, if I had even longer labels, it's sort of lining the chart out in a weird way. So
what you want to do is try to keep your margins as small as possible, especially on the left
and right, and to keep your labels as short as possible so that you don't have to increase
the margins. It's kind of a positive feedback loop.
The other thing that you should know about is, in this chart type setting here is these
different height modes. It depends on how you're embedding the chart. But if you hover
over this question mark, it will tell you a little bit more about different height modes. I won't
go through those now because you can read about them there.
And then the last thing to know about is the layout maximum width option, which lets you
set a maximum width for the chart in any sort of context. And sometimes this helps with
mobile and small screens as well, so that you make your chart at a smaller width, and it
doesn't get so squashed down when it's on a mobile screen.
So I hope that helps. This is something that is not very intuitive, how to do in Flourish, and
it's something that trips a lot of people up. Not necessarily right when they make the
visualization, but once they embed it on a web page and then look at it on a small screen,
they're like, oh no, this is not what I wanted. So I think it's definitely worth going through.
In this video I'm going to be talking about popups in Flourish and different kinds of popups
that are in different Flourish templates. So at the moment, we have two main different
types of popups. Each Flourish template has the option of adding popups, and some of
them are slightly different from others, but there's two main types.
And so the first is fully automatic popups that you can only turn on and off, and an example
of that kind in a template would be in the line, bar, and pie charts template, so that's where
we are right now. You can see here at the top: line, bar, and pie charts. And if you go to
the settings panel here on the right, there's this popup settings. And the only real options in
here are to change the text size up or down, to increase or decrease it, or to show or not
show. So they're on right now, and now they're not on. So when I hover over these bars,
nothing happens. Turn them on, there you go.
And the other type is a sort of very customizable, fully customizable popup. And that would
be in something like the projection map, which is where we are right now, in this one. So
this is a map of London boroughs, and it's being colored by the percent of school pupils
with non-English as a first language. So the highest here in Tower Hamlets and Newham,
and then they're low out in the outer boroughs.
So if you go to the regions layer settings and scroll down, you get the popup settings all
the way at the bottom, and the first thing is obviously to enable or disable them. So if I
disable them, turn them off, they're gone. And if I enable them, the default is for them to be
on auto. So what auto does is just show the name column, so in this case, that's the
London borough name, and then the column and the value that the map is being shaded
by, the different regions are being shaded by. So if we go to this, you can see that on the
data sheet. We can see that the name column is the borough and then the C column is the
value column, that the map is being colored by.
So you can also add, there's this metadata for popups column setting, which you can add
another column to, which will then automatically populate the popup as well. So for
example, if I wanted this inner or outer London column, I'd put that in there as well, D. And
then now it's showing up in the popup as well.
But let's say, for example, that I actually didn't want the percentage, I didn't want the pupils
with non-English language to be in the popup at all. Because the automatic popup will
always put that in there, to do this, you need to use this custom content option. So if I kind
of want to recreate this with just the custom content, but without the pupils percentage,
what I would do would be to use the custom content popup.
So the custom popup, the way it works is that you insert the value of columns using the
column name in brackets. So if I wanted to add the borough, so as a header, you also
need to know a little bit of HTML, because HTML is sort of how you arrange the popups. If
I wanted to add the borough there at the top, as sort of a header, we can do that there.
And then if I just wanted the inner or outer borough one as well, I would do this. And then I
could also add, like inner, or like type of borough, or something like that. And then I would
put inner or outer, exactly as it is in the data sheet, exactly the same capitalization. And
now when I hover over, the actual value of the map is gone, and it is just telling me the
borough name and the type of borough.
So custom popups are something that's kind of a more advanced feature, but once you get
your head around it, they're really useful and they mean that you can really customize your
maps especially, but other types of charts as well. And it's just a really great Flourish
feature.
