Using multiple encodings
An example of this idea of using multiple visualizations or multiple methods of encoding
when the story that you're trying to tell is complex, that requires both an overview of the
data and then being able to make accurate judgments based in the data, will be this story
by the Washington Post titled "America's Great Housing Divide. Are you a winner or are
you a loser?".
This is a basically a very long story that includes several data visualizations. The main one
being an interactive graphic that shows in your area, which neighborhoods experience an
increase or decrease in home prices between 2004 and 2014.
When you get to it, you may notice that the data is represented in two different ways. First
of all, it represented through a coropleth map, shades of color. Right? The different shades
of color represent a variation of home prices between 2004 and 2014. Now, this is, by the
way, you can input your zip code here. Right now we are seeing Washington, D.C., but
you can put any zip code here. And then the map will show your specific area, your
specific zip code.
Now, the data again is first represented through shades of color. Just to give you an
overview of the spatial distribution of this data, where home prices increase or decrease in
terms between one year and another year. That gives you the overview of the data. But
then what about if you want the details? If you want to see, for example, the year by year
variation very accurately in that specific region that you are selecting. Because you can
select any neighborhood over here and a chart will appear on this side of the graphic.
Right?
This is a line chart, so it is using angle. And it's also using in this case position of dots, as
we explained in a previous video when talking about encoding. It's using the position of
those dots, later connected with a line, to show you the year by year variation of home
prices in this area.
The second chart shows you the detail. The second chart is what allows you to see the
year by year variation very accurately. The map is not very accurate in giving you an
impression of the variation year by year. It's just an overview of the data. The spatial
distribution of the data.
But then you have this other graphic that encodes the exact same data, but it does it in a
completely different way. Rather than use shades of color, it is using position and the lines
to represent the change over time, so you can get a much more accurate picture of the
data.
