The annotation layer
Now that we have learned about encodings, let's talk about the next layer in a data
visualization, which is, I would say equally important to the encodings itself. It's what we
usually call in the world of data visualization, the annotation layer, which is not a term that I
invented. It's a term that I believe was invented in the graphics department of The New
York Times.
What is the annotation layer? Well, the annotation layer is those text elements that we add
to visualizations to either clarify the data, to highlight the most important data points in your
chart or to put the data in context somehow. And this is a very important layer in any data
visualization if you want to communicate effectively with the public. Let's suppose that you
do a line chart, right? With tons of little data points and stuff and suddenly there is a spike
in your line chart. Well, you better add a little note to that spike telling people, well, this
event or this phenomenon happen at this particular point in time, and this is the reason
why we have this sudden spike in our line chart. That's the annotation layer, that little note
that you're putting there, that's the annotation layer at work. The annotation layer is also
the intros that we write to our visualizations, the headlines that we write for our
visualization. Those elements are incredibly important in data visualization.
As an example of how the annotation layer works, I would just like to show you this project
by The Washington Post titled The Geography of Voting. It's basically a series of maps
and graphs and charts showing county by county which counties have higher participation
rates in elections or smaller participation rates in elections. The Washington Post
designers could have limited themselves just to show you the data, right? Just to map the
data, encode the data using colors and shapes and height and lengths and so on and so
forth, but they did something else. On top of those charts, they added little notes here and
there pointing out, you know, the counties with the highest rates, they counties with the
lowest rates. "Hey, don't miss these data point, this is really, really important." Those little
textural elements are crucial, are fundamental in data visualization. This is the annotation
layer at work. Never, never miss the opportunity to explain something in your chart or in
your graph, or in your map if you believe that that particular number, that particular point in
time or that particular county on a map should not be missed by your readers. If you don't
want them to miss it, just point it out and add a little bit of text next to it so people will focus
their attention on that particular point.
